Reflections on a day of self-development

  I was not really expecting such an open-ended assignment. I've come to realize that for me and guidelines, less is more. That is to say, the less guidelines I have, the more likely I am to struggle. I'm a big fan of being presented with a single problem and attacking it from all angles to figure out how to solve it. This is great when I'm trying to find a bug in someone's code. This is not helpful when the task is something open-ended, such us "make a nice looking website". I know why I don't like UI design. I'm not good at it the way I'm good at problem solving. I knew immediately that it was what I needed to work on.

  I decided to fire off several searches and open a few dozen tabs to get started. Unsurprisingly, there is a lot of material out there on UI design. Some sites I found were short lists of css tips and guidelines, others were long essays on what makes truly makes for good design. I quickly discovered the secret to mastering css and UI design: practice. This is not what I was hoping for, but decided that some practice is better than no practice. In fact, were it not for my shying away from the front-end world, I'd probably have a good deal more practice behind me. I decided to keep it simple; I'd focus on the latest version of bootstrap and rebuild my family's website.

  Some things are like riding a bicycle, and CSS is not one of them. The going was consistently slow. Mistakes were frequently made. Notes were written down in the log. At times it seemed like every minor change required at least 10 minutes of tweaking. The things I was most nervous about (getting the carousel and the nav bar implemented) turned out to be the easiest things to do. It was the simple things that took a long time. This was frustrating for two reasons. Everything is frustrating when it doesn't work, but what was more bothersome was knowing that I could have breezed through the simple things if I had been practicing on a regular basis.

  I had been putting off redesigning the website for a while, and it was for the very same reason I decided to work on it today: I am not good at CSS. I am certainly better now than I was in the beginning of the day. The website looks better. It really only took two things, patience and time. When it comes to UI design, and a fair amount of my work in general, I have been miserly with both of these things. It's common knowledge, but the lesson I learned today was that you really do get out what you put in. I can make a decent bagel, and it's not because I'm some sort of dough-whisperer. I've made lots of batches of bagels. The first half-dozen or so iterations were solidly mediocre. Every now and then I screw them up. But more often than not I can produce a product that I enjoy and can share with others. There is no reason to view CSS as anything different. I'm not thrilled with how the website turned out after a day's work, but that's ok. What's important is that I continue to work on it, and soon, so that I can develop my front-end muscles and not let them atrophy.

  I'm looking forward to taking everything that I learned today and applying it in the future.
